FEAT: Add postMessage auth wrappers (#762)
Esri/arcgis-rest-js: docs/src/guides/embedded-apps.md

---
title: Passing Authentication to iFramed apps
navTitle: Embedded Authentication
description: Learn how to pass authentication into iframe embedded applications.
order: 50
group: 2-authentication
---

**Note** This is a new api feature, and currently there are *no* platform applications that support the authentication flows discussed in this guide. However, this guide exists to help other platform app teams add this functionality to their apps.

# Authentication with Embedded Applications

Sometimes an application will need to embed another application using an `<iframe>`. If both applications are backed by items that are publicly accessible, things will just work.

> But, if the "Host" application is not public and the embedded application is not public, we then run into the question of how to pass authentication from the "Host" to the embedded application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if the embedded application is not public and the user has already logged into the "Host" application, we then run into the question of how to pass authentication from the "Host" to the embedded application.
```

### Cross Origin Embedding
Cross-Origin embedding occurs when the "host" app and the "embedded" application are served from different locations. This is only supported for ArcGIS Platform apps that support embedding.

For example, you can build a custom app, hosted at `http://myapp.com` and iframe in a "platform app" that supports embedding. However, you can not embed your custom app into a storymap, and expect the storymap to pass authentication to your app. This is done for security reasons.

## Using `postMessage` 
The browser's `postMessage` api is designed to allow communication between various "frames" in a page, and it is how this works internally. You can read more about [postMessage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage) at the Mozilla Developer Network.

# Authentication Flow
We will walk through the flows at a high-level

## 1 Host App uses oAuth

> The application acting as the host, should use oAuth to authenticate the user, and *before* rendering the iframe with the embedded application it must call `session.enablePostMessageAuth(validOrigins)`. This sets up an event handler that will process the requests from the embedded applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application acting as the host, should use oAuth to authenticate the user, and *before* rendering the iframe with the embedded application it must call `session.enablePostMessageAuth(validOrigins)`. This sets up a listener that will process the requests from the embedded application(s).
```

The `validOrigins` argument is an array of "orgins" your app expects to get auth requests from. **NOTE** This should be a constrained list of just the domains this particular application will actually be embedding.

```js
  // register your own app to create a unique clientId
  const clientId = "abc123"

  UserSession.beginOAuth2({
    clientId,
    redirectUri: 'https://yourapp.com/authenticate.html'
  })
  .then(session => {
    // for this example we will only send auth to embeds hosted on storymaps.arcgis.com
    const validOrigins = ['https://storymaps.arcgis.com'];
    session.enablePostMessageAuth(validOrigins);
  })
```

#### 2  Host App adds params to embed url
Let's suppose the host app is embedding `https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/15a9b9991fff47ad84f4618a28b01afd`. To tell the embedded app that it should request authentication from the parent we need to add two url parameters:

- `arcgis-auth-embed=true` - tells the app it's embedded in an iframe and should request auth from the parent. This allows the app to make ui changes like hiding headers etc

> - `parentOrigin=https://myapp.com` - this tells the app what 'origin' to expect messages from, what origin to post messages to, and also to ignore other origins. **note** this should be uri encoded

Reviewer: These should use consistent casing; both should use either camel or kebab. Also, should the be consistent about using an `arcgis` prefix?

@dasa, since they both appear to be required, can we instead get away w/ a single `arcgis-auth-origin=myapp.com`? If that's present assume `arcgis-auth-embed=true`?

Reviewer 2: That sounds good to me 👍🏻

const embedUrl = `${originalurl}?arcgis-auth-embed=true&parentOrigin=${encodeURIComponent(window.location.origin)}`;
// then use embedUrl in your component that renders the <iframe>
```

#### 3 Embed App boots and Requests Auth
In the embedded application, early in it's boot sequence it should read the query string parameters and make the determintation that it is running inside an iframe, and that it can request authentication information from the parent. 

```js
  // Parse up any url params
  let params = new URLSearchParams(document.location.search.substring(1));
  const useEmbedAuth = params.get('arcgis-auth-embed');
  const parentOrigin = params.get('parentOrigin'); 
  if (useEmbedAuth === "true" && parentOrigin) {
    UserSession.fromParent(parentOrigin)
    .then((session) => {
      // session is a UserSession instance, populated from the parent app
      // the embeded app should exchange this token for one specific to the application
    })
    .catch((ex) => {
      // if the origin of the embedded app is not in the parent's validOrigin array
      // this will throw with a message "Rejected authentication request."
    })
  }
```

> #### 4 Parent App Transitions Away

Reviewer: It seems like transitioning away is a specific reason to clean up and we may want to make this section more generic like:

```suggestion
`### Clean up`
```

For example, if the host app has a sign out button, does this need to be called there?

Reviewer: hm... looks like from below that once the authentication has been successfully passed from the host to the embedded app that the listener is removed. I think we should mention that here, and call out the scenarios where you might need to do it manually. I still think the transition example can be made more generic, like, "If the host app is no longer going to render the iframe before the embedded app has a chance to request the authentication, then it should manually clean up the listener by calling:`

- `arcgis-auth-embed=true` - tells the app it's embedded in an iframe and should request auth from the parent. This allows the app to make ui changes like hiding headers etc
- `parentOrigin=https://myapp.com` - this tells the app what 'origin' to expect messages from, what origin to post messages to, and also to ignore other origins. **note** this should be uri encoded

```js
const originalUrl = 'https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/15a9b9991fff47ad84f4618a28b01afd';
const embedUrl = `${originalurl}?arcgis-auth-embed=true&parentOrigin=${encodeURIComponent(window.location.origin)}`;
// then use embedUrl in your component that renders the <iframe>
```

#### 3 Embed App boots and Requests Auth
In the embedded application, early in it's boot sequence it should read the query string parameters and make the determintation that it is running inside an iframe, and that it can request authentication information from the parent. 

```js
  // Parse up any url params
  let params = new URLSearchParams(document.location.search.substring(1));
  const embedStyle = params.get('embed');
  const parentOrigin = params.get('parentOrigin'); 

>   if (embedStyle === 'iframe' && parentOrigin) {

Reviewer 2: Should be updated to use look for "arcgis-auth-embed=true"

Author: gah! thanks for the close reading!

>   if (useEmbedAuth && parentOrigin) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  if (useEmbedAuth === "true" && parentOrigin) {
```

The `validOrigins` argument is an array of "orgins" your app expects to get auth requests from. **NOTE** This should be a constrained list of just the domains this particular application will actually be embedding.

```js
  // register your own app to create a unique clientId
  const clientId = "abc123"

  UserSession.beginOAuth2({
    clientId,
    redirectUri: 'https://yourapp.com/authenticate.html'
  })
  .then(session => {
    // for this example we will only send auth to embeds hosted on storymaps.arcgis.com
    const validOrigins = ['https://storymaps.arcgis.com'];
    session.enablePostMessageAuth(validOrigins);
  })
```

#### 2  Host App adds params to embed url
Let's suppose the host app is embedding `https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/15a9b9991fff47ad84f4618a28b01afd`. To tell the embedded app that it should request authentication from the parent we need to add two url parameters:

> - `embed=iframe` - tells the app it's embedded in an iframe. This allows the app to make ui changes like hiding headers etc

Reviewer 2: This parameter isn't needed since the app can detect this using `window !== window.parent`.

Reviewer 2: If we want to keep this param as a kind of signal telling the app that it should use `postMessage`, we should probably name it to be less generic in case the app has its own `embed` parameter. Maybe "arcgis:auth:embed=true"?

Author: @dasa I'll change it to your suggestion

> - `parentOrigin=https://myapp.com` - this tells the app what 'origin' to expect messages from, and also to ignore other origins. **note** this should be uri encoded

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `parentOrigin=https://myapp.com` - this tells the app what 'origin' to expect messages from, what origin to post messages to, and also to ignore other origins. **note** this should be uri encoded
```

#### 2  Host App adds params to embed url
Let's suppose the host app is embedding `https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/15a9b9991fff47ad84f4618a28b01afd`. To tell the embedded app that it should request authentication from the parent we need to add two url parameters:

> - `arcgis-auth-origin=https://myapp.com` - this tells the app what 'origin' to expect messages from, what origin to post messages to, and also to ignore other origins. **note** this should be uri encoded

Reviewer 2: This sentence from the old param may be good to copy over too:

> tells the app it's embedded in an iframe and should request auth from the parent.

Author: Cool - I'll address w/ Tom's "Clean Up" section comment in a moment...
